.\" $Id: AFsp.1AFsp 1.13 2017/07/20 AFsp-v10r2 $
.TH AFsp 1AFsp
.SH Name
AFsp \- TSP Audio Programs
.SH Description
The AFsp package provides audio file utility programs and a library of
routines for reading and writing audio files.
.SH Audio File Utilities
.PD 0
.RS 4
.IP CompAudio 5
Compare audio files, producing statistics and signal-to-noise ratio figures.
.IP CopyAudio 5
Copy audio files. This program combines samples from input audio files (an
arbitrary linear combination) and writes them to the output file in a user
selectable data format. One application is to provide format conversion for an
audio file; another is to combine samples from multi-channel files.
.IP FiltAudio  5
Filter audio files. This program filters an audio file with an FIR, IIR or
all-pole filter. This program can be used with an appropriate filter for
sample rate conversion. The AFsp package includes a number of filters
from the ITU-T Software Tool Library (G.191) in a form that can be used
directly with the FiltAudio program.  
.IP GenNoise 5
Generate noise. This program generates an audio file containing Gaussian
white noise.
.IP GenTone 5
Generate a sinusoid. This program generates an audio file containing a
sine wave of a given amplitude and frequency.
.IP InfoAudio 5
Display information about an audio file (data format, header/data layout
and information strings).
.IP ResampAudio 5
Resample data from an audio file. This process involves interpolating
between the samples in the original file to create a new sequence of samples
with a new spacing (sampling rate).
.RE
.PD
.SH Audio File Library Routines
The audio file open routine automatically senses the input file type. The
data format for the file is passed to the audio file reading routines. The audio
file reading routine does byte swapping and format conversion on the fly as the
file is read. The user sees float/double data without needing to worry about
the underlying data format.
.PP
Once a file is opened for writing, the user calls routines which take the
user's float/double data and do format conversion and byte swapping of the data.
.PP
The library routines supplied in AFsp package form part of the
libtsp signal processing library. These routines are written in C.
.PD 0
.RS 4
.IP AFclose 5
Close an audio file
.IP AFdReadData 5
Read data from an audio file (return double values)
.IP AFdWriteData 5
Write data to an audio file (double input values)
.IP AFfReadData 5
Read data from an audio file (return float values)
.IP AFfWriteData 5
Write data to an audio file (float input values)
.IP AFopnRead 5
Open an audio file for reading
.IP AFopnWrite 5
Open an audio file for writing
.IP AFsetFileType 5
Set the input audio file type
.IP AFsetInfo 5
Set the audio file information string
.IP AFsetInputPar 5
Set defaults for headerless audio files
.IP AFsetspeaker 5
Set loudspeaker spatial positions
.RE
.PD
.SH Audio File Formats
The following file formats are supported for reading.
.RS 4
.TP 5
Headerless audio files
.TP 5
AU audio files
.TP 5
WAVE files
.TP 5
AIFF/AIFF-sowt/AIFF-C audio files
.TP 5
NIST SPHERE audio files
.TP 5
IRCAM soundfiles
.TP 5
INRS-Telecom audio files
.TP 5
CSL NSP files
.TP 5
ESPS sampled data feature files
.TP 5
SPPACK sample data files
.TP 5
Cadence SPW Signal files
.TP 5
Text audio / NOISE-EX files

.RE
.PP
The following file formats are supported for writing.
.RS 4
.TP 5
Headerless audio files
.TP 5
AU audio files
.TP 5
WAVE files
.TP 5
AIFF/AIFF-sowt/AIFF-C audio files
.TP 5
Text audio files (with header)
.RE
.PD
.SH Audio File Data Types
The following (uncompressed) data types are supported.
.RS 4
.TP 5
8-bit mu-law, bit-reversed mu-law, and A-law
.TP 5
8-bit signed and unsigned fixed-point
.TP 5
16, 24, 32-bit signed fixed-point
.TP 5
32, 64-bit floating-point
.TP 5
text data
.RE
.PP
.SH See Also
CompAudio CopyAudio FiltAudio GenNoise GenTone InfoAudio ResampAudio
