.TH GenTone - AFsp (1AFsp)
.SH Routine:
GenTone [options] AFile
.SH Purpose:
Generate an audio file containing a sine wave
.SH Description:
This program generates a sine wave of a given amplitude and phase.  The
samples of the sine wave are written to an audio file.  Options are available
to specify the number of samples, the sampling frequency and the data format
of the output file.
.SH Options:
.in +3n
.ti -3n
Output file name, AFile:
.br
Specifying "-" as the output file indicates that output is to be written
to standard output.  If the output file type is not explicitly given (-F
option), the extension of the output file name is used to determine the
file type.
.ft CW
.nf
  ".au"   - AU audio file
  ".wav"  - WAVE file
  ".aif"  - AIFF sound file
  ".afc"  - AIFF-C sound file
  ".raw"  - Headerless file (native byte order)
  ".txt"  - Text audio file (with header)
.fi
.ft P
.ti -3n
-f FREQ, --frequency=FREQ
.br
Frequency of the sine wave in Hertz, default 1000.
.ti -3n
-r SDEV, --rms=SDEV
.br
Root-mean-square value of the sinusoid in normalized units, default 0.03.
The rms value can be given as a real number (e.g., "0.03") or as a ratio
(e.g., "983.04/32768").
.ti -3n
-a AMPL, --amplitude=AMPL
.br
Maximum amplitude of the sine wave in normalized units.  The amplitude
of the sine wave is specified by either the rms value or the maximum
amplitude. The amplitude can be given as a real number (e.g., "0.0424")
or as a ratio (e.g., "1390.2/32768"). The default amplitude corresponds
to an RMS value of 0.03.
.ti -3n
-p PHASE, --phase PHASE
.br
Initial phase of the sinusoid (sine) in degrees, default 0.  Zero phase
gives a sine, -90 degrees gives a cosine.
.ti -3n
-n NSAMPLE, --number-samples=NSAMPLE
.br
Number of output samples to be generated.
.ti -3n
-s SFREQ, --srate=SFREQ
.br
Sampling frequency for the output audio file, default 8000.
.ti -3n
-F FTYPE, --file-type=FTYPE
.br
Output file type.  If this option is not specified, the file type is
determined by the output file name extension.
.ft CW
.nf
  "AU" or "au"             - AU audio file
  "WAVE" or "wave"         - WAVE file. Whether or not to use the WAVE
                             file extensible format is automatically
                             determined.
  "WAVE-EX" or "wave-ex"   - WAVE file. Use the WAVE file extensible
                             format.
  "WAVE-NOEX" or "wave-noex" - WAVE file; do not use the WAVE file
                             extensible format
  "AIFF-C" or "aiff-c"     - AIFF-C sound file
  "AIFF-C/sowt" or "aiff-c/sowt" - AIFF-C (byte-swapped data)
  "AIFF" or "aiff"         - AIFF sound file
  "noheader" or "noheader-native" - Headerless file (native byte order)
  "noheader-swap"          - Headerless file (byte swapped)
  "noheader-big-endian"    - Headerless file (big-endian byte order)
  "noheader-little-endian" - Headerless file (little-endian byte order)
  "text-audio"             - Text audio file (with header)
.fi
.ft P
.ti -3n
-D DFORMAT, --data-format=DFORMAT
.br
Data format for the output file.
.ft CW
.nf
  "mu-law8"   - 8-bit mu-law data
  "mu-lawR8"  - 8-bit bit-reversed mu-law data
  "A-law8"    - 8-bit A-law data
  "unsigned8" - offset-binary 8-bit integer data
  "integer8"  - two's-complement 8-bit integer data
  "integer16" - two's-complement 16-bit integer data
  "integer24" - two's-complement 24-bit integer data
  "integer32" - two's-complement 32-bit integer data
  "float32"   - 32-bit IEEE floating-point data
  "float64"   - 64-bit IEEE floating-point data
  "text16"    - text data, scaled the same as 16-bit integer data
  "text"      - text data, scaled the same as float/double data
.fi
.ft P
.ti -3n
-I INFO, --info=INFO
.br
Audio file information string for the output file.
.ti -3n
-h, --help
.br
Print a list of options and exit.
.ti -3n
-v, --version
.br
Print the version number and exit.
.in -3n
See routine CopyAudio for a description of other parameters.
.in +3n
.ti -3n
-D DFORMAT, --data-format=DFORMAT
.br
Details on allowed data formats for the output file
.ti -3n
-I INFO, --info-INFO
.br
Details on usage and default information records
.ti -3n
-S SPEAKERS, --speakers=SPEAKERS
.br
Loudspeaker configuration
.in -3n
.SH Author / version:
P. Kabal / v10r2  2018-11-16
.SH See Also
AFsp
