.TH InfoAudio - AFsp (1AFsp)
.SH Routine:
InfoAudio [options] AFile1 [AFile2 ... ]
.SH Purpose:
Print audio file information
.SH Description:
This program prints information about a number of audio files to standard
output.  The full output consists of the file type and name (indented part of
the output below), the file data parameters, information records, and if
appropriate, the chunk structure of the file.
.ft CW
.nf
   AIFF-C sound file: --path--/audiofiles/addf8.aifc
     Samples / channel : 23808 (2.976 s)  YYYY-MM-dd hh:mm:ss UTC
     Sampling frequency: 8000 Hz
     Number of channels: 1 (16-bit integer)
.fi
.ft P
.ft CW
.nf
  --File format--
  File name: ../../../audiofiles/addf8.aifc
  Header length: 166
  Sampling frequency: 8000
  No. frames: 23808
  No. channels: 1
  Data type: integer16
  File byte order: big-endian
  Host byte order: little-endian
.fi
.ft P
.ft CW
.nf
  --Information records--
  date: YYYY-MM-dd hh:mm:ss UTC
  program: CopyAudio
.fi
.ft P
.ft CW
.nf
  -- Chunk layout--
   <FORM> 0 -> 47781
       <AIFC> 8 -> 11
       <COMM> 12 -> 57
         ...
       <FVER> 58 -> 69
         ...
       <ANNO> 70 -> 149
         ...
       <SSND> 150 -> 47781
         ...
   <EoF > 47782
.fi
.ft P
Non-printing characters (as defined by the routine isprint) in the information
records are replaced by question marks.
.SH Options:
.in +3n
.ti -3n
Input file names, AFile1 [AFile2 ... ]:
.br
The environment variable AUDIOPATH specifies a list of directories to be
searched for the input audio file(s).
.ti -3n
-i ICODE, --info_code=ICODE
.br
Parameter to choose the information to be printed.  The information that
can be printed consists of four parts.  The ICODE parameter is the sum
of the codes which control printing of the individual parts.
.ft CW
.nf
  1:  Print the standard information: file name, filetype, no. samples ...
  2:  Print the file data parameters
  4:  Print the information records
  8:  Print the chunk configuration (only for AIFF/WAVE/NSP files)
.fi
.ft P
The default is to print all of the information (ICODE=15).  For ICODE=0,
no information is printed, but the program return code indicates if all
files were opened successfully.
.ti -3n
-h, --help
.br
Print a list of options and exit.
.ti -3n
-v, --version
.br
Print the version number and exit.
.in -3n
See routine CopyAudio for a description of other parameters.
.in +3n
.ti -3n
-t FTYPE, --type=FTYPE
.br
Input file type and environment variable AF_FILETYPE
.ti -3n
-P PARMS, --parameters=PARMS
.br
Input file parameters and environment variable AF_INPUTPAR
.in -3n
.SH Environment variables:
.in +3n
.ti -3n
AUDIOPATH:
.br
This environment variable specifies a list of directories to be searched
when opening the input audio files.  Directories in the list are separated
by colons (semicolons for Windows).
.in -3n
.SH Author / version:
P. Kabal / v10r2  2018-11-16
.SH See Also
CompAudio,
CopyAudio,
AFsp
