.TH FiltAudio - AFsp (1AFsp)
.SH Routine:
FiltAudio [options] -f FilterFile AFileI AFileO
.SH Purpose:
Filter data from an audio file
.SH Description:
This program takes an audio file and a filter coefficient file as input and
produces a filtered output audio file.  Subsampling and interpolation factors
can be optionally specified.  This program supports three types of filters,
FIR, all-pole, and general IIR.  Filters are specified in filter files.
.in +3n
.ti -3n
Filter Files:
.br
.in -3n
The first record of a filter file indicates the type of filter.
.ft CW
.nf
  !FIR  - FIR filter, direct form
  !IIR  - IIR filter, cascade of biquad sections
  !ALL  - All-pole filter, direct form
.fi
.ft P
Subsequent records contain text lines with filter coefficients.  Comment
records ('!' in the first position of the record) can be interspersed amongst
the data.  Data records are free form, with data values separated by
white-space (blanks, tabs and newlines).  Commas can also be used to separate
data values, but only within records, i.e. a comma should not appear at the
end of a record.
.PP
FIR filters are specified by the direct-form coefficients h[i],
.ft CW
.nf
         N-1       -i
  H(z) = SUM h[i] z    .
         i=0
.fi
.ft P
IIR filters are implemented as the cascade of biquadratic filter sections,
where each section has a z-transform,
.ft CW
.nf
           h(i,0)*z^2 + h(i,1)*z + h(i,2)
  H(i,z) = ------------------------------ .
              z^2 + h(i,3)*z + h(i,4)
.fi
.ft P
All-pole filters are specified by direct-form feedback coefficients,
.ft CW
.nf
          1                    N-1       -i
  H(z) = ----  ,  where C(z) = SUM h[i] z    .
         C(z)                  i=0
.fi
.ft P
For FIR filters, a sample rate change can be affected with interpolation
and subsampling.  For IIR and all-pole filters, the output can be subsampled.
Let Ir and Nsub be the interpolation and subsampling factors, respectively.
Conceptually, the rate change is accomplished as follows.
.in +3n
.ti -3n
 1: Ir-1 zeros are inserted between adjacent samples of the frequency shifted
.br
input to increase the sampling rate by a factor of Ir.
.ti -3n
 2: The increased rate signal is filtered.
.br
.ti -3n
 3: The result of the filtering is subsampled by a factor of Nsub to form the
.br
output signal.
.in -3n
The initial filter alignment and the number of output samples can be
specified with options.  The filter alignment specifies the position of the
filter relative to the input data for calculating the first output sample.
For FIR filters, this alignment is relative to the increased rate input
sequence.  Specifically, let the number of samples in the input file be Nin.
The input can be considered to be an array x(0),...,x(Nin-1).  The increased
rate sequence is xi(.), with xi(k*Ir)=x(k).  The first output sample is
calculated with the beginning of the impulse response of the filter aligned
with xi(idoffs).  The array xi(.) can be considered to be of length Nin*Ir;
the first non-zero sample is xi(0)=x(0), the last non-zero sample is
xi((Nin-1)*Ir).  Conceptually, the impulse impulse response is moved in
steps of Nsub to create the output samples.
.PP
The intent is that the output samples are the subset of the values the would
be obtained if the infinite length sequence formed by padding out the input
data on either end with zeros were to be filtered.  To this end, the filter
calculations need warm-up points, particularly for the case that the initial
filter alignment is not at the beginning of the input data.  For FIR filters,
this is taken into account by reading previous input values into the filter
memory.  For IIR and all-pole filters, previous outputs are also needed as
warm-up points.  If the initial alignment is near the beginning of the data,
the IIR filter is run from the beginning of the data to generate the warm-up
points.  For larger alignment offsets, the IIR filter is backed up for a
maximum of 1000 samples to provide the warm-up points.
.PP
If the initial filter alignment is not explicitly specified, it is chosen to
be zero, except for symmetric or anti-symmetric FIR filters.  In those cases
the default alignment is Ncof/2-1 for even length filters and (Ncof-1)/2 for
odd length filters.  If the number of output samples is not explicitly set,
it is chosen to be Ir*Nin/Nsub.  For the case of Ir=1 and Nsub=1, this
results in the same number of output samples as input samples.  If the
initial filter alignment, offs, is explicitly specified, the number of output
samples is chosen to be (Ir*Nin-offs)/Nsub.  This value can be overridden by
explicitly setting the number of output samples.
.SH Options:
.in +3n
.ti -3n
Input file name, AFileI:
.br
The environment variable AUDIOPATH specifies a list of directories to be
searched for the input audio file.  Specifying "-" as the input file
indicates that input is from standard input.
.ti -3n
Output file name, AFileO:
.br
The second file name is the output file.  Specifying "-" as the output
file name indicates that output is to be written to standard output.  If
the output file type is not explicitly given (-F option), the extension
of the output file name is used to determine the file type.
.ft CW
.nf
  ".au"   - AU audio file
  ".wav"  - WAVE file
  ".aif"  - AIFF sound file
  ".afc"  - AIFF-C sound file
  ".raw"  - Headerless file (native byte order)
  ".txt"  - Text audio file (with header)
.fi
.ft P
.ti -3n
-f FILTFILE, --filter_file=FILTFILE
.br
Text file containing filter coefficients.  The header of the file indicates
the type of filter as described above.
.ti -3n
-i IR/NSUB, --interpolate=IR/NSUB
.br
Filter interpolation ratio, default 1.  The interpolation and subsampling
factors are specified as a fraction Ir/Nsub.  Interpolation can only be
used with FIR filters.
.ti -3n
-a OFFS, --alignment=OFFS
.br
Alignment of data relative to the filter.  The first output sample is
calculated with the beginning of the filter response aligned with the
specified sample of the interpolated data sequence.
.ti -3n
-g GAIN, --gain=GAIN
.br
A gain factor applied to the data from the INPUT file.  This gain applies
to all channels in a file.  The gain value can be given as a real number
(e.g., "0.003") or as a ratio (e.g., "1/256").
.ti -3n
-n NSAMPLE, --number_samples=NSAMPLE
.br
Number of samples (per channel) for the OUTPUT file.  If not specified,
the number of samples is determined automatically.
.ti -3n
-F FTYPE, --file-type=FTYPE
.br
OUTPUT file type.  If this option is not specified, the file type is
determined by the output file name extension.
.ft CW
.nf
  "AU" or "au"             - AU audio file
  "WAVE" or "wave"         - WAVE file. Whether or not to use the WAVE
                             file extensible format is automatically
                             determined.
  "WAVE-EX" or "wave-ex"   - WAVE file. Use the WAVE file extensible
                             format.
  "WAVE-NOEX" or "wave-noex" - WAVE file; do not use the WAVE file
                             extensible format
  "AIFF-C" or "aiff-c"     - AIFF-C sound file
  "AIFF-C/sowt" or "aiff-c/sowt" - AIFF-C (byte-swapped data)
  "AIFF" or "aiff"         - AIFF sound file
  "noheader" or "noheader-native" - Headerless file (native byte order)
  "noheader-swap"          - Headerless file (byte swapped)
  "noheader-big-endian"    - Headerless file (big-endian byte order)
  "noheader-little-endian" - Headerless file (little-endian byte order)
  "text-audio"             - Text audio file (with header)
.fi
.ft P
.ti -3n
-D DFORMAT, --data-format=DFORMAT
.br
Data format for the OUTPUT file.
.ft CW
.nf
  "mu-law8"   - 8-bit mu-law data
  "A-law8"    - 8-bit A-law data
  "unsigned8" - offset-binary 8-bit integer data
  "integer8"  - two's-complement 8-bit integer data
  "integer16" - two's-complement 16-bit integer data
  "integer24" - two's-complement 24-bit integer data
  "integer32" - two's-complement 32-bit integer data
  "float32"   - 32-bit IEEE floating-point data
  "float64"   - 64-bit IEEE floating-point data
  "text16"    - text data, scaled the same as 16-bit integer data
  "text"      - text data, scaled the same as float/double data
.fi
.ft P
The data formats available depend on the output file type.
.ft CW
.nf
  AU audio files:
    mu-law, A-law, 8/16/24/32-bit integer, 32/64-bit float
  WAVE files:
    mu-law, A-law, offset-binary 8-bit, 16/24/32-bit integer,
    32/64-bit float
  AIFF-C sound files:
    mu-law, A-law, 8/16/24/32-bit integer, 32/64-bit float
  AIFF and AIFF-C/sowt sound files:
    8/16/24/32-bit integer
  Headerless files:
    all data formats
  Text audio files:
    tex16, text
.fi
.ft P
.ti -3n
-I INFO, --info=INFO
.br
Add an information record to the OUTPUT audio file.
.ti -3n
-h, --help
.br
Print a list of options and exit.
.ti -3n
-v, --version
.br
Print the version number and exit.
.in -3n
See routine CopyAudio for a description of other parameters.
.in +3n
.ti -3n
-t FTYPE, --type=FTYPE
.br
Input file type and environment variable AF_FILETYPE
.ti -3n
-P PARMS, --parameters=PARMS
.br
Input file parameters and environment variable AF_INPUTPAR
.ti -3n
-D DFORMAT, --data-format=DFORMAT
.br
More details on allowed data formats for the output file
.ti -3n
-I INFO, --info-INFO
.br
Details on usage and default information records
.ti -3n
-S SPEAKERS, --speakers=SPEAKERS
.br
Loudspeaker configuration
.in -3n
.SH Environment variables:
.in +3n
.ti -3n
AUDIOPATH:
.br
This environment variable specifies a list of directories to be searched
when opening the input audio files.  Directories in the list are separated
by colons (semicolons for Windows).
.in -3n
.SH Author / version:
P. Kabal / v10r1  2017-10-18
.SH See Also
CopyAudio,
ResampAudio,
AFsp
