.TH AFsetSpeaker - libtsp (3tsp)
.SH Routine:
int AFsetSpeaker (const char String[])
.SH Purpose:
Set loudspeaker spatial positions
.SH Description:
This routine sets the mapping of output channels to speaker positions.  The
spatial positions of the loudspeakers are specified as a list of comma and/or
white-space separated locations from the list below.
.ft CW
.nf
          Name                    IEC 62574  AES 22.2 WAVE Ext
  "FL"    - Front Left                x        1/1       x
  "FR"    - Front Right               x        1/2       x
  "FC"    - Front Center              x        2/1       x
  "LFE1"  - Low Frequency Effects-1   x        2/2       x
  "BL"    - Back Left                 x        3/1       x
  "BR"    - Back Right                x        3/2       x
  "FLc"   - Front Left center         x        4/1       x
  "FRc"   - Front Right center        x        4/2       x
  "BC"    - Back Center               x        5/1       x
  "LFE2"  - Low Frequency Effects-2   x        5/2
  "SiL"   - Side Left                 x        6/1       x
  "SiR"   - Side Right                x        6/2       x
  "TpFL"  - Top Front Left            x        7/1       x
  "TpFR"  - Top Front Right           x        7/2       x
  "TpFC"  - Top Front Centre          x        8/1       x
  "TpC"   - Top Centre                x        8/2       x
  "TpBL"  - Top Back Left             x        9/1       x
  "TpBR"  - Top Back Right            x        9/2       x
  "TpSiL" - Top Side Left             x       10/1
  "TpSiR" - Top Side Right            x       10/2
  "TpBC"  - Top Back Centre           x       11/1       x
  "BtFC"  - Bottom Front Centre       x       11/2
  "BtFL"  - Bottom Front Left         x       12/1
  "BtFR"  - Bottom Front Right        x       12/2
  "FLw"   - Front Left wide           x
  "FRw"   - Front Right wide          x
  "LS"    - Left Surround             x
  "RS"    - Right Surround            x
  "LSd"   - Left Surround direct      x
  "RSd"   - Right Surround direct     x
  "TpLS"  - Top Left Surround         x
  "TpRS"  - Top Right Surround        x
  "-"     - No speaker assigned
.fi
.ft P
A speaker position can be associated with only one channel. For compatibility
with previous usage, some synonyms are applicable. For instance
.ft CW
.nf
  "LF"   -> "LFE1"
  "SL"   -> "SiL", ...
  "TpFL" -> "TFL", ...
.fi
.ft P
.in +3n
.ti -3n
Configuration Names:
.br
.in -3n
The following names can be used to set a speaker location configuration.
.ft CW
.nf
  "Stereo" : "FL FR"
  "Quad"   : "FL, FR, BL BR"
  "5.1"    : "FL, FR, FC, LFE1, BR, BL"
  "7.1"    : "FL, FC, FR, LFE1, BR, BL, SiL, SiR"
.fi
.ft P
.in +3n
.ti -3n
WAVE extensible files:
.br
.in -3n
These files can store the speaker locations in the file header if certain
constraints are in place.
.in +3n
.ti -3n
- The list of available speaker locations are:
.br
FL, FR, FC, LFE1, BL, BR FLc, FRc, BC, SiL, SiR, TpC, TpFL, TpFC, TpFR,
TpBR, TpBC, TpBR
.ti -3n
- Assume M speaker locations are specified. These must be associated with the
.br
first M audio channels.
.ti -3n
- The speaker locations must be in the same order as the list, but specific
.br
locations can be skipped.
.ti -3n
- As an example, the order "FL FR TpC" is valid, but "FL FC FR" is not.
.br
.ti -3n
AIFF-C files:
.br
.in -3n
Speaker locations are implicit in AIFC-C audio files.
.in +3n
.ti -3n
- Stereo: "FL FR"
.br
.ti -3n
- 3 channel: "FL FR FC"
.br
.ti -3n
- Quadraphonic" "FR FR BL BR"
.br
.ti -3n
- 4 channel surround: "FL FC FR BC"
.br
.ti -3n
- 6 channel surround: "FL FLc FC FRc FR BC"
.br
.ti -3n
AU, AIFF, AIFF-C, and WAVE (non-extensible):
.br
.in -3n
Speaker locations appear as an information record of the form,
.ft CW
.nf
  "loudspeakers: FL FR LFE1"
.fi
.ft P
This speaker location record is one of the standard information records which
appear in the file header.
.SH Parameters:
.in +3n
.ti -3n
<-  int AFsetSpeaker
.br
Error flag, zero for no error
.ti -3n
 -> const char String[]
.br
String containing the comma and/or white-space separated list of speaker
positions
.in -3n
.SH Author / revision:
P. Kabal
/ Revision 1.18  2017-06-12
.SH See Also
AFopnWrite
