.TH GenNoise - AFsp (1AFsp)
.SH Routine:
GenNoise [options] AFile
.SH Purpose:
Generate an audio file containing uncorrelated Gaussian noise samples
.SH Description:
This program generates zero-mean uncorrelated pseudo-random Gaussian deviates.
These white noise samples are written to an audio file. Each invocation of
this program generates a different random sequence unless the random number
generator seed is specified. Options are available to specify the number of
samples, the sampling frequency and the data format of the output file.
.SH Options:
.in +3n
.ti -3n
Output file name, AFile:
.br
Specifying "-" as the output file indicates that output is to be written
to standard output. If the output file type is not explicitly given (-F
option), the extension of the output file name is used to determine the
file type.
.ft CW
.nf
  ".au"   - AU audio file
  ".wav"  - WAVE file
  ".aif"  - AIFF sound file
  ".afc"  - AIFF-C sound file
  ".raw"  - Headerless file (native byte order)
  ".txt"  - Text audio file (with header)
.fi
.ft P
.ti -3n
-d SDEV, --std_deviation=SDEV
.br
Standard deviation of the noise samples in normalized units, default 0.03.
The standard deviation can be given as a real number (e.g., "0.03") or as
a ratio (e.g., "983.04/32768").
.ti -3n
-x SEED, --seed=SEED
.br
Integer-valued seed for the random number generator, default from the
current time.
.ti -3n
-n NSAMPLE, --number_samples=NSAMPLE
.br
Number of output samples to be generated.
.ti -3n
-s SFREQ, --srate=SFREQ
.br
Sampling frequency for the output audio file, default 8000.
.ti -3n
-F FTYPE, --file-type=FTYPE
.br
Output file type. If this option is not specified, the file type is
determined by the output file name extension.
.ft CW
.nf
  "AU" or "au"             - AU audio file
  "WAVE" or "wave"         - WAVE file. Whether or not to use the WAVE
                             file extensible format is automatically
                             determined.
  "WAVE-EX" or "wave-ex"   - WAVE file. Use the WAVE file extensible
                             format.
  "WAVE-NOEX" or "wave-noex" - WAVE file; do not use the WAVE file
                             extensible format
  "AIFF-C" or "aiff-c"     - AIFF-C sound file
  "AIFF-C/sowt" or "aiff-c/sowt" - AIFF-C (byte-swapped data)
  "AIFF" or "aiff"         - AIFF sound file
  "noheader" or "noheader-native" - Headerless file (native byte order)
  "noheader-swap"          - Headerless file (byte swapped)
  "noheader-big-endian"    - Headerless file (big-endian byte order)
  "noheader-little-endian" - Headerless file (little-endian byte order)
  "text-audio"             - Text audio file (with header)
.fi
.ft P
.ti -3n
-D DFORMAT, --data-format=DFORMAT
.br
Data format for the output file.
.ft CW
.nf
  "mu-law8"   - 8-bit mu-law data
  "mu-lawR8"  - 8-bit bit-reversed mu-law data
  "A-law8"    - 8-bit A-law data
  "unsigned8" - offset-binary 8-bit integer data
  "integer8"  - two's-complement 8-bit integer data
  "integer16" - two's-complement 16-bit integer data
  "integer24" - two's-complement 24-bit integer data
  "integer32" - two's-complement 32-bit integer data
  "float32"   - 32-bit IEEE floating-point data
  "float64"   - 64-bit IEEE floating-point data
  "text16"    - text data, scaled the same as 16-bit integer data
  "text"      - text data, scaled the same as float/double data
.fi
.ft P
.ti -3n
-I INFO, --info=INFO
.br
Add an information record to the output audio file.
.ti -3n
-h, --help
.br
Print a list of options and exit.
.ti -3n
-v, --version
.br
Print the version number and exit.
.in -3n
See routine CopyAudio for a description of other parameters.
.in +3n
.ti -3n
-D DFORMAT, --data-format=DFORMAT
.br
Details on allowed data formats for the output file
.ti -3n
-I INFO, --info-INFO
.br
Details on usage and default information records
.ti -3n
-S SPEAKERS, --speakers=SPEAKERS
.br
Loudspeaker configuration
.in -3n
.SH Author / version:
P. Kabal / v10r3  2020-11-30
.SH See Also
AFsp
