.TH AFsetHinfo 3tsp "TSP (libtsp/AF)"
.SH Routine
.in +4n
.ti -4n
void AFsetHinfo (const char Info[])
.in -4n
.SH Purpose
.in +4n
.ti -4n
Set the audio file header information string
.in -4n
.SH Description
This routine sets the information string to be written to an audio file
header (or trailer).  By default the header information records specify the
date and user name.  This routine allows the user to specify information
records that are used in addition to, or in place of, the standard header
information.  This routine must be called before the audio file to be
created is first opened using AFopenWrite.  AFopenWrite resets the header
string to a NULL string.
.PP
Standard Header Information:
.ft CW
.nf
.ne 3
  date: 1994-01-25 19:19:39 UTC    date
  sample_rate: 8012.5              sampling frequency (if non-integer)
  user: kabal@aldebaran            user
  program: CopyAudio               program name (set by UTsetProg)
.fi
.ft P
.PP
Additional structured information records should follow this format; a named
field terminated by a colon followed by numeric data or a character string.
Comments can follow as unstructured information.
.ft CW
.nf
.ne 3
  Record delimiter: Newline character or the two character escape
      sequence "\\" + "n".  The last record need not have a delimiter.
  Line delimiter: Within records, lines are delimited by a carriage
      control character, the two character escape sequence "\\" + "r",
      or the two character sequence "\\" + newline.
.fi
.ft P
If the information string starts with a record delimiter, the header
information string is appended to the standard header information.  If not,
the user supplied header information string appears alone.
.PP
If the input header information string is a NULL pointer, the standard
information is used.  If the header information string starts with a record
delimiter, the input header information string is added to the existing
information records (the standard information and/or any previously
specified records).  Otherwise the input header information string replaces
the standard information.  The following examples illustrate the behaviour.
.PP
.in +4n
.ti -4n
- AFsetHinfo (NULL)
.br
Reset, use only the standard information records
.ti -4n
- AFsetHinfo ("")
.br
No header information records
.ti -4n
- AFsetHinfo ("<info>")
.br
Replace existing information with <info>; do not use the standard
information records
.ti -4n
- AFsetHinfo ("\\n<info>")
.br
Add <info> to the existing information string.
.in -4n
.SH Parameters
.in +4n
.ti -4n
 -> const char Info[]
.br
String containing the user supplied header information
.in -4n
.SH Author / revision
P. Kabal
/ Revision 1.41  2002/09/03
.SH See Also
AFopenWrite
